  Quality of health care, competition in health care, and ethics are other
societal issues that affect nursing.  For instance, the consumer movement
has increased the awareness of quality health care.  Many Americans are
voicing dissatisfaction with health care and are more readily shopping around
for services.  Competition among health care providers is evident, with an
increase in the number of Hmos and other alternatives to hospitalization
(E.g., home care, hospice) and the proliferation of freestanding urgent or
nonemergency-type facilities. (See chapters 2 and 5 for more discussion on
these topics.)  The consumer movement and increased technology have
heightened the public awareness of ethical dilemmas.  One ethical dilemma
related to technology that has gained public awareness is the issue involving
unresponsive clients on life support systems.  The ethical decision may
relate to how long the life support is maintained and who makes the decision
to remove the life support system.
  Internal professional needs and direction also affect the future direction
of nursing. Nursing's need for knowledge development and theoretical basis
for practice have necessitated the move toward baccalaureate education as the
minimum entry level to professional nursing, as we have discussed earlier.
Nursing leaders are emphasizing the need for master's and doctoral level
education.  These levels are essential for the professionalism of nursing.
The development of nursing's theory, practice, and research are dependent
upon the preparation of nurses at these levels.  This has been discussed
throughout the text.
  The future direction of nursing must be guided by nurses.  Schlotfeldt
(1985) stated that nursing must become an autonomous profession with
independent professionals who are responsible and accountable for fulfilling
nursing's unique social mission.  This mission is identified by Schlotfeldt
as "appraising and enhancing the general health status, health assets and
health potentials of all human beings" (P. 8).
  In order for the discipline to progress as a unique and essential
component of society, nurses must autonomously direct educational preparation
of nurses; direct nursing research and theory development;  educate
consumers in effective health care practices; and direct health care
legislation.
